Minutes of the meeting of Project 3 held on 15/07/22, 14:00 at CO236

**Present:** Shruti, Deepika, Selby, Thomas, Shridhar

**Apologies:** Lucy

---
**Welcome:**

**Minutes of the last meeting:**

**Action Items from the last meeting:**

**Management reporting:**

Safety plan to be completed utilising current H&S documents

Discussion around who will take responsibility as project lead each week

Tentative roster: 
- Selby
- Shridhar
- Shruti
- Deepika
- Lucy

Client and tutor meeting times:
- Friday 13:00 - 13:30 Client meeting
- Friday 15:00 tutor (to be arranged)

The team will aim to complete a retrospective after every sprint

Creation of a new lab attendance document to be added to GitLab

Re-organising the GitLab layout to tidy it up

Meeting minutes will need to be taken by the person who is the next project lead

Coding goals to be completed by every Friday

Meeting agenda for client meeting to be completed by Thursday and reviewed

**Next meeting:** the next meeting of project 3 will be held on 18/07/22, 13:00 at CO236
