Date: 25/05/2022
Time: 12:00

---
**Attendance:**	Jesse, Selby, Shruti, Sridhar, Lucy, Thomas, Deepika

---
** Things covered/completed:**

All group members worked on the following:

- Defining Proof of Concept (POC) as opening and exiting editor in cowrie environment
- Defined a specific time frame for development of functions in classes
- Converted said functions into sprints and created corresponding gitlab issues
- Tenative groups created to work on different issues in parallel (groups labelled below)
- Presentation will be broken down into sections and assigned accordingly
- Completed retrospect regarding the process and completion of AD document and Requirements document

---
**Things to do:**

- Working POC next Wednesday for marking
- Work on assigned issues on gitlab
- Organise and run through mock presentation with Winston
- Complete presentation and submit on 9th of June

---
**Retrospect points to work on:**

- Weekly communication with client, most likely in email, get them to review minutes after client meeting if able
- Meeting deadlines, ensuring you account for other external factors when providing deadlines and more use of the gitlab issues
- Confirmation and an agreed vision of what the project involves on a higher-level and more cohesion in terms of documentation

---
**Tentative groups (potientially subject to change):**

- Team 1: Selby, Sridhar
- Team 2: Lucy, Deepika
- Team 3: Shruti, Thomas
